all right so let's first have a look at
how the academic writing task 1 is
written so a quick recap of the formula
by now you guys should have this
memorized so we start off with an
introduction which is a paraphrase of
the prompt that you get with the task
you're then going to write a general
overview this is where you select and
report the main features or trends
without mentioning statistics then you
write your detailed description where
you compare the data and add statistics
and then finally you end with a summary
of the main trends again ok so if we've
gone through a lot in the past webinars
on the formula came out and the
structure of writing task 1 so today
we're going to look in particular at
some of the criteria for how its graded
so you're graded on four things the
first one is task achievement the second
one is coherence and cohesion the third
is vocabulary and the fourth is grammar
so let's have a look in detail what each
of these are task achievement
it means you leave the word count you've
written a hundred and fifty work or over
that you have selected the appropriate
information okay that you have not just
picked random trends or random data that
you've selected information that is
appropriate meaning the most noticeable
the most important and that you've
discussed main trends and contained them
so that you've achieved the requirements
of the task next the next criteria is
coherence and cohesion this means that
you have logically sequenced your ideas
meaning that all of your ideas relate to
one another this is on an overall scale
meaning that the formula has been
applied paragraph by paragraph
but also within your paragraphs that
your ideas are connected that they make
sense and that you have used cohesive
devices meaning things like linking
words on the other hand
conversely things like that vocabulary
is the third criteria this relates to
word form have you used the correct word
forms for example the adjectives not the
adverb or the noun form not the
adjective form okay that you've used
words in the correct way and that you've
made correct word choices so the choices
of words that you've made have been a
correct and appropriate uses less common
vocabulary okay this is interesting
vocabulary things that show that your
vocabulary is a little bit more
sophisticated also under vocabulary is
spelling so that you use correct
spelling the fourth criteria that you're
graded on is grammar they want to see
that you can use a variety of sentence
structures for example active and
passive sentences different forms of
sentence structure the your sentence
structures are correct that you use
punctuation so for software you need to
pull useful stops and commas where you
need to use comments and that you have
written mostly error-free sentences
meaning not making mistakes with
prepositions or subject of agreement or
verb tenses all of this comes under
grammar so today we're going to be
looking at some common mistakes that
people make in grammar for writing task
1 the first thing we're going to look at
is noun noun or a noun meaning plural or
singular so if it's one noun it doesn't
take s if it's more than one noun
usually we add an S
one mistake that many of us make in our
writing is we forget to write s at the
end of a plural noun
so let's look an example of singular
versus mclaurel some people prefer to
eat at home so people here is plural
we don't say persons we see people so
this is an irregular plural noun it
doesn't take s others prefer to eat at
restaurants so others other people it's
plural we have to take s and restaurants
well restaurants in general and because
it's a general noun we make it plural we
add an S so your first task is to
identify the noun in this writing task 1
I'll give you a few moments
[Music]
okay let's have a look at the noun there
are lots so nouns form a large part of
the English language here they are there
are 25 of them all together now there
are some mistakes in plural and singular
nouns so the next thing I'd like you to
do is spot the mistakes there are 7 some
nouns have an S 2 initiative and some
nouns don't have an S when they should
so which ones are they
all right let's check our answer
okay so information and most of you got
this right should not have s information
is a non countable noun restaurant meal
should say restaurant meals time periods
should be time period and fast-food meal
to be fast food meals okay so these were
our mistakes why informations restaurant
meals and fast food meals as I said
information is not countable we can't
count it so it never takes us we can
only add s to mount that accountable for
example one egg two eggs we can't say
one information to informations because
it's not countable restaurants meal the
main now here is meals restaurants act
as an adjective so meals what kind of
meals restaurant meals the adjective
never takes s only the noun so in this
case the F goes on meals fast food meals
there are many fast food meals okay it's
not just talking about one fast food
meal has has become popular not just one
meal but many the same thing with a time
period time period it's only one time
period so the whole entire graph was
over one period from let's say 1970 to
2000 that period is only one time period
it's not looking at more than one
there's no comparison between for
example 1910 to 1950 and in 1950 to 1980
that would be two time periods
okay so there were the biggest mistakes
that people make with noun adding an S
where there shouldn't be but most of the
time it's forgetting to put the S on the
plural now the other big mistake that we
tend to make is articles using articles
incorrectly so articles are are and the
or no article and is the same as up but
we put it before a word that starts with
a vowel and what's a vowel there are
five AEIOU okay so these are the same it
just depends on which word comes after
it so for example our restaurant after
restaurant just means any particular s
any restaurant no restaurant in
particular and increase okay we haven't
defined the increase and we've used and
because it's followed by a vowel verb
graph meaning specific a particular
graph the charts so we can use the
plural again to talk about specific
charts money here I haven't used an
article I've omitted an article because
I'm talking about money in general we
can also put an article before an
adjective so our restaurant becomes a
nice restaurant and incremental increase
the line graph the pie charts paper
money so it's usually article plus noun
or article plus adjective plus noun so
identify the articles plus noun in this
task response and there's only one
[Music]
okay so the article noun is an increased
is this correct
should it be an increase so there are a
couple of mistakes in this sentence the
prepositions are also wrong what we're
going to get two prepositions in a
moment let's look at this an increase in
money spent in fast food is significant
is and the correct article to use there
okay now it's not as our n is the
incorrect article why why can't we use
and increased well in this particular
sentence is incorrect because n is used
for undefined or unspecific now money in
this sentence is defined which money the
money spent on fast food therefore money
takes death we only use F or M for nouns
that are undefined also yes also some
are just asked why can't we say our
money because money is an uncountable
noun even though we can count at
to money one dollar two dollars ten
cents the name itself is uncountable I
can't say our money five money's ten
money so money can only either take no
article or a definite article because we
only use our for nouns that are
countable okay I would like for you to
identify the article plus the adjective
noun and there's only one
[Music]
okay the as the definite article and
adjective-noun
is the time period so here the time
period period is the noun what kind of
period to time period and yes the
increase in money the increase this
would be adjective noun here we have
sorry article noun and here we have
article adjective now okay now I'd like
you to identify the nouns that need an
article so sometimes we forget to put an
article so I have forgotten to put an
add a few articles in my response so I'd
like you to find a noun that you think
need an article
Oh
you
okay just to help you out here and
amount that are missing an article we've
got data number percentage number and
money so you need to read those
sentences carefully and ask yourself
which article do they need the or n
[Music]
all right so the answers were what
actually we'll get to the answers in a
moment wait today are ver data the
number the percentage the number and the
money why well let's have a look at the
rules chain on one second let me go back
okay so here are the general rules to
live by that guides your use of articles
so we don't use an article with general
statements that use plural countable
noun or singular uncountable nouns let's
look at an example fast food restaurants
are known for their quick service so I
haven't said as a fast food restaurant
why not because it's a general statement
I'm not talking about any particular
fast-food restaurants just fast food
restaurants in general with plural
countable nouns so restaurants is plural
I can't say fast food restaurant is
known for its quick service okay because
I can only use a twist countable plural
noun or singular uncountable
for example service this kind of service
is uncountable we can say that the
company offers many services but we
can't say the restaurant has good
service okay it's a different meaning
and in that case it is uncountable
singular we use AA or n with nonspecific
countable nouns I went to our fast food
restaurant last week ok it's not
specific I haven't told you which one so
I've said ah but to remember our is only
ever in singular we can't pay our
restaurants for example that is used
with specific countable and uncountable
nouns for example the restaurant was
extremely busy and the staff were
overwhelmed I could also said the
restaurants were extremely busy now
which restaurants why have I used the
because I'm talking about the restaurant
that I went to last week it becomes
specific because I've already previously
mentioned it so the second or third or
fourth time I mention it you know which
one I'm talking about now I'm talking
about the restaurant that I went to last
week so that's why the second time I can
use the definite article okay and here
we did so somebody had a question about
why can't we put the money why can't we
put the before money in the introduction
paragraph because it's talking about
money in general but the might about
money spent or that so money spent on
eating out by who if we had specified
who spent the money so the money spent
by diners or the money spent by people
or the money spent by customers but we
haven't specified who spent the money so
that's why we don't mention the
different article okay let's move on now
to another mistake common mistake is
prepositions these are words like in on
at from to and by small words but big
confusion so task firstly identify the
prepositions how many are there
[Music]
okay let's have a look so we have in on
at from by two so quite a few there okay
I'm going to go through the rules for
prepositions but these rules are not in
relation to everything to do with
prepositions they're only to do with how
we use prepositions for writing task 1
okay it's very specific to this
particular task so in we say in a year
so in 2000 in a place so in a restaurant
on you spend money on food you spend
money on something at so although home
is a place like in a restaurant we don't
stay in home
okay we always say at home at home
always go together we also say at 20%
this means the start point or the end
point so the percentage started at 20%
and finished at 20% from from 10% 10%
would be the lowest point so the data
increased from 10% to 15% so 2 would be
the higher point and then we have
bye-bye is the difference between the
two so it increased by 5% okay because
the difference between 10 and 15 is 5 ok
so now that we have an idea about how we
use these prepositions let's go back and
make some Corrections there are 8
preposition mistakes and I've
highlighted them in red okay so the red
prepositions that incorrect you need to
fix them
[Music]
you
ok let's check our answers ok so eating
at home because a client was always at
home never in home or online here it's
on because significantly the percentage
of money spent on restaurant meals so
the money you always spend money on
something I like to spend money on shoes
for example ok again the money spent on
fast-food here we have at because home
cooking started at 90% in 1970 remember
at we used for starting point ok or
ending point and an in is always for a
year and then here to fast food meals
became more popular rising steadily from
20% in 1972 almost 30% in 1980
so if from is the low point then to is
the high point so from and to always go
together when we're comparing data so it
increased from two or it decreased from
30 to 10 here we have increasing money
on eating out spending money again on
and spending money on ok next common
mistake is verbs so we're slowly slowly
making this this writing task better
we've corrected the mound mistakes we've
corrected the article mistakes and we've
corrected the preposition mistakes now
we want to correct the verb mistake so
firstly identify the verbs
you
all right let's have a look here our
ever
now there are some mistakes of some of
these verbs so let's correct these
mistakes I've just highlighted the ones
that are incorrect
okay here are our answers
Gibbs increased rows spent became and
was spent so as you notice we put number
two three four five and six into simple
past why because all of this data you
know all of this money were spent in the
past the last year was the year 2000 so
this has already happened so the money
or the number of the amount of money
rose in the past people spent when in
the past in 2000 who became more popular
when in 2000 okay most of the money was
spent when in 2000 so we're talking
about things that happened in the past
so generally most of the verbs in
writing task 1 are going to be in simple
past money was spent why we use wild to
plural or singular nouns so I was he was
she was it was this is singular and what
did we say before about money it's
singular this is confusing because we
think of money is something we can count
yeah
but the noun itself is non countable
have you ever said money's I have a lot
of money's no so we can't say that so
good question we say money was not money
words because money is singular so yes
well done ah now we said gives in
present tense so everything else was in
past but we said gives in present tense
because we're saying what the data is
doing the data provided or the graph
shown or the or the table
yeah given it tells us about
give self information because that's in
present tense that's what it's doing
right now the table itself exists in the
present but what it's describing exists
in the past so it always say the data
tells us or the data gives us the data
explains the data reveals ok so the verb
related to the data is in present but
pretty much everything else is going to
be in past so what have we fixed we fix
the mistakes in noun we fix the articles
the prepositions and the verbs so I'm
going to show you the original we're
going to compare my original writing
task 1 to the edited writing task 1 with
all of the mistakes fixed so here's the
original
[Music]
now there's one more mistake this one
here number of city-owned the number of
sit-down meals also increased but more
steady what's the mistake here this is
what we call a word for mistake that's
more of a vocabulary mystic rather than
grammar so steady is an adjective but it
should be an adverb because it's
describing the verb so yes it should be
steadily all right so this was the first
attempt as you can see I've used the
structure I've used a structure quite
well there's logical progression of
ideas but really the main mistakes here
or all the mistakes here and grammar
related and you can see that it takes
away from the fluency of the writing so
let's look at the edited version
[Music]
okay so you can see the difference that
grammar makes although the structure is
the same the information is the same
those few grammar mistakes in nouns
articles prepositions and verbs and
definitely changed the the way that you
read that task it sounded less native
and it just sounded off
okay so grammar can make a big
difference and it's one of the four
criteria that they're going to use to
grade you so you want to really take
care with these kind mistakes okay any
questions